In this lecture we will learn about how we can apply image filters using C Ss CSSA gives us the filter
property to apply filter effects to our image element to blur filter allows us to blur our image a specified
amount to see these examples.
First we will add an image element to our Web page and give it a source of slide that PMG then we will
add an opening and closing style tag to our code.
We will use the filter property and give our image a three pixel blur then we will go to the web browser
and run our code as you can see the blur that we specified was applied to our image.
Let's jump back to the editor the brightness filter allows us to modify the brightness of our image
a specified amount.
The higher the value the brighter we make the image and vice versa.
Let's give our image of brightness value of 150 percent.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our image is brighter than before.
Let's jump back to the editor.
The contrast filter allows us to modify the contrast of our image.
The higher the value the higher the contrast than vice versa.
Let's assign our image a contrast of 150 percent and then run our code in the web browser as you can
see our image has high contrast.
Let's jump back to the editor
the drop shadow filter allows us to add a drop shadow to our image.
Let's use the drop shadow filter in our style code.
We will give our drop shadow a horizontal offset of 20 pixels of vertical offset of 15 pixels a blur
radius of 8 pixels and the color of gray.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
You will notice that the drop shadow is displayed behind our image.
Let's jump back to the editor the grayscale filter allows us to modify the greyscale of our image of
value of 0 percent will leave the image unchanged and a value of 100 percent is completely gray of value
in between will result in a mix of the two.
Let's use the grayscale filter and give it a value of 50 percent.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our image is partially grayed out.
Let's jump back to the editor the Heugh rotate FELTER allows us to rotate the hue of our image.
We supply a value of 0 degrees to 360 degrees.
Let's use the Heugh rotate filter and pass it a value of 270 degrees then we will run our code in the
web browser as you can see the hue of our image has been rotated.
Let's jump back to the editor to invert filter allows us to invert the color samples in our image.
We can supply the percent value from 0 percent to 100 percent.
So let's use the invert filter and pass it a value of 100 percent then we will go to the web browser
and run our code as you can see the colors in our image have been inverted.
Let's go back to the editor the Sebbie filter allows us to convert the image to SFP tone.
We can supply 2 percent value from 0 percent to 100 percent.
We will use the set be a filter and pass in a value of 80 percent.
When we run our code in the browser you will notice the effect of the sappy filter on our image.
Let's jump back to the editor the opacity filter allows us to modify the opacity of our image.
We can supply the present value from 0 percent to 100 percent zero being completely transparent and
100 percent being completely opaque.
Let's use the opacity filter and pass it a value of 70 percent.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our image is 70 percent opaque.
Let's jump back to the other.
We can assign multiple filter values to the filter property by separating each with the space and putting
a semi-colon after the last one.
For this example we will give our image a saturation of 50 percent a blur of two pixels and an invert
value of 100 percent.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see all three filters were applied to
our image.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
A filter value of None will set our image back to the original image with no filter values applied.
Let's give our filter property a value of None and then run our code in the browser as you can see our
images back to its original state in the next lecture.
We will recap what we learned in this section.